Let's start by reviewing Backward Compatibility.
Backward compatibility indicates that consumers developed against
the latest schema can still use data from the prior versions of that schema.
Backward compatible changes are typically addition of
a new optional field or the deletion of a field and the newest schema.
Let's use an example for a purchase event as an example.
This schema contains a username,
currency, and then amount.
Now, let's say we added an optional memo field to the schema.
If we developed the consumer application against this latest version of the schema,
we would still be able to use all of the previous purchase data,
making it backward compatible.
Our consumer code already has to deal with
the fact that a memo may or may not be present.
All previous data does not have a memo field,
but our code will still be able to handle that case.
Likewise, if we instead deleted a field from the model,
say the Currency field and then develop the consumer against this updated schema version,
this would also be a backward-compatible change.
Even though all the historical data will contain
the Currency field our new processing code will simply ignore it.
There's one additional detail we need to cover,
and that's the applicability of the compatibility setting.
Schema Registry defines both backward and backward transitive settings.
When you market compatibility change as backward compatible,
it means the change is just compatible with the previous version of the schema,
but not any versions prior to that.
If you mark a compatibility change as backward transitive,
that means that the change is backward compatible with
all versions of the schema ever published a Schema Registry.
Finally, if your producer is making a change which is backward compatible,
you need to allow your consumers to update to the latest version of
your schema before you release the updated producer.
If you don't, your consumers will be unable to process data
produced with the new schema until they had been updated.
If you update your consumers first to handle
the new datatype and then publish the producer change,
new data will be handled gracefully in your system.